>> Hello, I'm
Georgia Shakti-Hill,
and I want to welcome
you to Living in Balance.
Our subject today is success.
And we're going to
be talking about how
we might reinvent success.
But we're going to
use this definition.
Success is finding the
path to human wholeness.
Come join us.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Today is Patricia Varley.
And I want to welcome you.
>> Thank you, Georgia.
It's nice to be here.
>> You are a business
and personal coach.
>> That's correct.
>> I like that.
But you have a neat title.
I like this.
You're called an internal
development specialist.
>> That's right.
>> OK.
Now what are you developing?
>> Well, I believe that
really success comes from--
I reinvent success
from the inside out.
So I really work with both
groups and individuals
on an inner level
to bring more of who
they are to what
they do, whether it's
to an organization,
whether or not
they own their own business.
It's really bringing
their authentic sense
of purpose and mission to
their work and their life.
>> And there is a need
for that, apparently.
>> Absolutely.
>> People are not bringing that
authenticity of who they are
into their work.
>> Yes, I'm finding that.
And I also find that
individuals, whether they're
entrepreneurial or work
with a major corporation,
really want more meaning and
fulfillment in their life.
And that is one of the reasons
why they're seeking out
someone like a coach or wanting
to bring more of their heart
to their work, because
something is missing.
So it's causing
them to look within
and redefining not
only themselves,
but the way in which they
define success in the work
that they do.
>> And it's interesting that
we've come to that point
as a society or as individuals
where we are really looking
for more fulfillment
in our work.
It's not just OK
to make the money
and have that a
place where you go
and you do something,
that work environment.
>> Right.
>> And so we want
to be fulfilled.
And also we want to have a
feeling of accomplishment.
>> Absolutely.
I'm finding with the
work that I'm doing out
in the world is that
people want to feel
that they're contributing.
I think everyone wants
to feel that they matter
and that they make a difference.
And very often I've
gone into corporations,
and you can just tell--
and this is nothing
against corporations,
but that individuals
somehow feel disconnected
from themselves, or
they want to feel
that they are an important
integral part of the whole.
So a lot of what I do is
a path to human wholeness
through success, and I
use it through coaching
and through my speaking work.
>> Now are you finding that some
people are really in the wrong
job, or are they looking at
their job in the wrong way?
What are we dealing with
here If someone is not
happy on the job?
>> Well, I think it's--
actually I think it's both.
I don't know if there's
a statistic that
would say one or the other,
but I find, for example,
with my private clients that a
lot of the people I work with
are in transition.
And genuinely they have
completed what they've done.
It's like they can't
get anymore out of it,
and it's about making
a major life change.
For example, I
worked with a woman
who was in a major corporation
for many years, about 15 years,
and ended up leaving and
becoming a massage therapist.
She was like VP of a
computer analyst company
and just completely
changed her life.
Someone else just needed
to re-perceive their work
and themselves from
a different light.
I'm trying to think
of an example.
I have someone who is a graphic
artist, for example, who,
she loves her work, but needed
to maybe branch out and market
herself to a different
niche or in a different way
so she felt more fulfilled.
>> So still her same talent,
but just redirecting that.
>> Exactly, from a
different perspective.
>> Well, you have-- one
of the things I liked
in your materials is
that you have a maze.
And this maze is kind of
like what we sometimes
are doing is we're trying to
find our way through that maze.
And that's where you
talk about that path--
>> Right.
>> --to the human wholeness.
Is that--
>> That's it.
Success is finding the
path to human wholeness.
And it is a maze.
I think we each have our
own individual journey.
And for some people,
it's very, very clear.
For others, there is a lot
of unfolding and evolving
that needs to be done
as they're on the path.
I mean, myself, I started
out wanting to be a therapist
and ended up in hotel
management for many, many years,
and then resort
management, and then
got involved in a network
marketing business where
I was self-employed.
I've always been
very entrepreneurial.
And that led me now to doing
the motivational, inspirational
speaking and the business
and personal coaching.
So everything has been a
different turn of that maze,
you might say.
But it's led me to my, what I'd
say, my purpose or my mission.
And some of us just know it
right away, and other of us
have stepping stones that
we need to take in order
to be clear about that.
>> Or even in that maze, we go a
certain distance and we realize
we have to regroup and go back.
>> Absolutely.
>> And try again.
>> And I like that, too,
because your background is in--
you have your bachelor's
in behavioral sciences.
>> Sciences, right.
>> But your master's
was in management?
>> Organization and
management and human services
administration.
So really what I've
done is integration
is the key with my work.
I've integrated the
professional, personal,
and spiritual aspects
of growth and of life,
where my behavioral science,
which is psychological,
sociological approach.
And then I have the management
and the business master's,
and then the spiritual
foundation that kind of
is the web through all of it.
>> And I like that, because
what you say is we really need
to-- what we're talking about
is living in balance in mind,
body, spirit.
>> Right.
>> And you're saying it's an
integration of professional,
personal, and spiritual growth.
>> And spiritual, right.
>> You need to really
blend all of those.
And we are not a
whole or happy person
if one of those aspects of
our life are not working.
And we need to really get
all of it kind of working
together and, as you
say, integrating it.
>> Absolutely.
That's right, Georgia.
And I often-- at
times I'll hire--
excuse me-- clients
will hire me as a coach.
And they'll say,
well, I don't want
to do the spiritual counseling.
I don't want to do the
spiritual coaching.
Because I'm really a
coach and not a counselor.
And I say, OK, OK.
And they don't realize that
ultimately the spiritual piece
is what we end up focusing on
because that's the piece they
haven't focused on.
And the reason they're feeling
disconnected in their work
is that they're disconnected
from their spirit
and from their heart and from
what it is that makes them tick
and what their passion is.
And as we unfold and
discover what that is,
their work becomes
more meaningful.
>> Yes.
>> And I think so
often as a society,
we compartmentalize that that
doesn't belong in the same room
as our work.
They're mutually exclusive.
But really what I'm
finding in terms
of working with individuals
and associations
is that they're
mutually supportive.
They help each other.
>> And I like that.
And I like the idea that people
are asking for this approach,
too.
And if you're going
into corporations
and they know that you're
going to be looking
at the whole picture,
including the spiritual side,
is that OK in American
business culture?
>> Well, I'm finding--
I've been doing this
about six years.
And when I first started, I
mean, my own-- my left brain,
my rational mind
thought I was crazy.
It said, you can't go into
companies or associations
and talk about spirit
in the workplace.
And I'm actually
finding that I'm
being hired because I do that.
And I think that--
I don't know if you saw
the cover of "Businessweek"
November 1999.
The cover of "Businessweek" was
"Spirituality in the Workplace,
Religion in Corporate America."
And I think the
reason that's even
on a cover of a
national magazine
like that is that the externals
aren't working for people,
and they're so
changeable in our society
that it's forcing
individuals to go within.
And companies are
realizing that they've
got to start valuing
the human capital, not
just the intellectual
capital, so to speak.
And there are a
lot of companies,
like I worked with
Kraft Foods, and I've
done some work with Chase Bank
and Wall Street for women.
And different organizations,
it's because it's spiritual.
It's a different approach.
It makes people feel like
their individuality matters
and makes a difference.
So I think it's great
that not all companies,
but some companies are beginning
to really awaken themselves
to the fact that they
have valuable individuals
in the organization.
>> Well, what I liked in an
article that you had written
was that you used a
heart-centered approach.
>> Right.
>> OK.
Now if we're doing that, we
will interact differently
with our colleagues.
>> Right.
>> With the people with whom
we work if we're coming from
a heart-centered approach.
>> Right.
>> That's quite different.
>> It is.
Very often with my
private clients,
they want to come from a
heart-centered approach.
And very often there
is a resistance,
as much as they want it, because
it means being more vulnerable,
and it means being more real.
And particularly in
the business world,
where often we have our personas
and we go in and do our job--
>> Sure, yeah.
>> --the authenticity, that
realness, the communication,
the connection with someone on
a business level with a customer
or a colleague, it actually is
more effective if we are more
real.
But we're not taught
that that's safe to do.
So that's part of what
I hope to instill.
>> Because it's also
disarming to the other person.
So a lot of people
are not used to being
approached at that level.
And it's interesting
if when you are
used to projecting that
persona, and then you shift
and you respond to
someone on a human level
rather than on a
professional level,
they're kind of taken aback.
I've done it.
>> Have you?
>> Yeah, I have.
And it's interesting.
I had someone who called me in.
It was a negative phone
call, and he was talking
about something with anger.
And I said, oh, well, that's
an interesting concept.
>> Right.
>> And he kind of giggled
because he expected me to come
back to him angry.
But that's how I
thought about it.
I thought, well, that's a
way for him to look at this.
This happy.
But that is kind
of new to business.
>> Absolutely.
It takes a lot of
courage to show up
in the workplace like
that, because we want
to protect ourselves somehow.
But it's like what comes
first, the chicken or the egg.
Needing to have the persona
and protect ourselves and go
in and do our job is
creating the problem
of people feeling disconnected
and companies maybe
not working.
And so we go back internally and
say, what do I need to develop
and nurture internally so
that my external world,
my work, my
relationships will be
more fulfilling and effective?
>> Oh, sure.
And that sounds wonderful.
You have a mission
statement or a thought
that you've shared here.
I heal myself and the
planet by speaking
the message of feminine
power in the ecstatic
voice of God's love.
>> That's my own
personal mission.
>> Yeah.
And I want people to have
their own mission statement.
You feel that's important
because you have now,
in writing, you have
formalized how you think.
The ecstatic voice
of God's love.
>> God's love.
And the feminine power,
in terms of healing myself
and the planet,
when I say feminine,
I don't necessarily mean female.
I mean the feminine
principle of heart,
of intuition, of receiving,
of all the spirit, the passion
that we need to integrate
into the business world
so we can have not
just a balanced life
but a balanced workplace.
>> And not just for
females, but the feminine--
>> The feminine in men
and women, absolutely.
It's the feminine principle
for male or female.
>> Well, you have lots of
ways that we can get there.
So we're going to take a break.
And when we come
back, we'll just
go step by step so that you can
reinvent success for yourself.
Stay tuned, and
we'll be right back.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And if you are just joining
us, I'm Georgia Shakti-Hill.
And our subject is
reinventing success.
And it's really an individual
path to that human wholeness.
And success tells
us whether or not
we are fulfilling our purpose.
And if we are just enjoying
that passion of the work
that we're doing and
we sometimes need help,
and that's where
Patricia Varley comes in.
She is a business
and personal coach.
And I love the other part--
an internal development
specialist.
And sometimes we do have to
develop ourselves, do we not?
>> Internally, absolutely.
And when I work with
a private client,
very often the outside maybe
isn't working in their business
or in their life
because the inside
has been either
neglected or needs
some support in their growth.
So what I'll do when
I'll coach somebody
is I'll work with them
to really find out
what their objectives are.
So we'll help to clarify
those objectives.
>> And you know,
it's interesting.
We find always that everything
in the outer part of our life
works better if we have really
done our homework inside.
>> Absolutely.
>> We have to.
We have to go back
and heal the past,
do all the forgiveness stuff.
There's a lot of work
to being a happy person.
>> There is, and a
successful person,
whatever you may
define success to be.
So often a client will say, gee,
I want to expand my business.
I work with a lot
of entrepreneurs.
I want to expand my business.
So we develop a marketing
strategy for them
and clarify what their
goals are and objectives.
But then we find out that there
are belief systems or maybe
bad habits or fears that they
have from the past that prevent
them from actually moving
forward and expanding
in the way that they would like.
So part of the coaching process,
which is an ongoing process,
is to help an individual have
freedom from limiting beliefs
so that they can create a
different type of work or life
for themself, if that's
what they choose.
>> I think that's a fun job,
then, that you've created.
>> Very fulfilling.
Very, very rewarding.
>> Now we have practical steps
that people can take to reclaim
the wholeness.
>> Right.
>> So reclaiming the
wholeness of people.
We start with number one.
You say it's clarification
of objective.
>> That's right.
>> And that's
where you ask them,
what do you really want to do?
>> Right.
>> And they write it down.
They tell you.
Do they have to think
about it, or what's
the formulation of that?
>> A question I ask everyone
is, in a perfect ideal world,
without worrying about
money or details,
what would you do in your heart?
What inspires you?
What would you do if
you could do anything?
Most people are not doing it,
or they're doing a part of it.
So I really want to
get in touch with what
is the thing that
inspires them the most,
because I believe that
spirit informs their desire.
And that is a guideline for me
to where I can start working.
>> Now if they have blocks to
really knowing what they want
to do, how do you help
them remove those blocks?
If they can't bring
clarity to it.
>> Often what I'll do is I
will have them sometimes make
a list.
Write down everything
that you're good at.
that you like.
Write down the things
that you don't like,
the things that you feel
you need improvement in.
And we'll take a
look at those lists.
Very often, I talk about
reinventing success.
But so often it's individuals
want to reinvent the wheel,
and what they're really looking
for is right in front of them.
And what I do is help
them to uncover the areas
where their strengths and
their unique gifts are.
>> Your second point-- and this
is important because of that.
It's release of the past.
The past is freedom
from limiting beliefs.
>> Right.
>> Now, we are our own
worst enemy in that case--
>> Absolutely.
>> --if we are blocking
ourselves to success.
And it could be just even
things from childhood
or previous experiences.
So how do we free ourselves?
>> I'll give you an example.
I have a client up
in the Northeast,
because I work
nationally, who we
did a marketing strategy to
help her expand her business.
But when it came down to
really getting on the phone
and calling up people
to set up appointments,
she would completely
froze with fear
because she had this
belief that said, well,
who was she to get out
there with her business?
She was afraid to really expand
because she didn't think--
she had a belief that
said from her family,
you're not that big.
You're not that important.
Not from an ego place, but
who are you to do that?
So there was this tape
running in her head that
was preventing her from
actually expanding her business
at the level that she wanted.
So once we identified
that, because awareness
is half the battle,
we were able to make
some steps to move forward.
>> And even, I noticed in one of
the other articles that you had
written, you mentioned
using the terminology,
the shift in words from
selling to sharing.
>> Right.
>> And that word sharing
is much more comfortable.
>> It is.
Well, selling,
very often, if you
think of someone who tries
to sell you something,
you think about they're
really thinking about what
they want to get from you.
And when I think
of sharing, it's
that I'm here to share
my gifts with you.
I'm here to share my work
with you, my talents.
And I don't need to
get anything from you.
It's just a matter of sharing.
It's a contribution mode.
Very often that sort of
hard-core sales pitch
is about survival.
It's like, I need
you to make my quota.
So it's more of a
survival consciousness.
>> That's not comfortable.
>> No, it's not.
And most of us will
shy away from that.
And even presenting that to
someone doesn't feel good.
But if you really believe in
yourself and what you're doing,
there is a level of sharing.
And you know you're
making a difference.
It's an easier exchange
between two people,
particularly in the
professional world.
>> I like that.
Now, the third step
that you can take
is development of the practical
tools to achieve results.
So there's a practical aspect.
You come into this not with
this airy-fairy feeling good
and so forth.
>> Oh no.
No, no, no.
>> But that's where the
practical businesswoman comes
in here too.
>> Right.
Exactly.
Well, I work on two
levels with process,
which is a lot of what
we've been talking about,
and then there's task.
And the tools are,
OK, what do we
need to do this week on a real
practical specific tangible
level for you to--
bottom line, let's say you
want to increase your business
by 25%, or you
want to ultimately
maybe expand into
the state of Georgia,
or something like that.
You want to work
more nationally.
What do we need to do?
How are you going
to market yourself?
I help a lot of people
with their marketing tools.
And by defining
who they are, they
can have more effective
marketing tools
to get out there.
We might do mailings.
The tools are
different depending
on the client that I work with.
>> Well, also you
said with that,
all your materials that you send
out there should really reflect
who you are.
>> Absolutely.
>> So you bring
that into it, too.
Who are you?
And everything that you
have should reflect that.
>> Most often when I work--
>> Your business card
and paperwork, all that.
>> Yeah.
Excuse me.
Very often, when I work with
a client, part of the tools
is getting the physical
marketing tools.
And very often they have
to change because they've
been on a different
professional path,
or they need to shift it
to who they really are.
So very often, that will change.
It will start networking
in different groups.
In fact, one of the things
I really feel is important
is that it's important to
collaborate and cooperate
with like-minded professionals.
That actually is a tool, to
get out there and start meeting
with like-minded professionals,
to share your talents,
to share what your
services or your product
are with other people.
>> Networking is what
they're calling it,
and that's really
basically what it is.
>> Right.
>> Now also, another point
that you say here is a shift
in perspective and
heightened awareness.
>> Right.
>> OK, now what is that,
a shift in perspective?
>> Well, a shift in perspective
is if you've seen yourself in A
or B and there's actually D and
E that would better support you
in your work, very often, if
we've got our blinders on like
this for a long time, we
need to step out of that.
And what a coach
does enables you to--
it's an objective
outside person that
can enable you to
step out of yourself
and look at your business
from a different perspective
and maybe see what you
couldn't see before.
>> And with the
heightened awarenesses--
and really be paying attention.
>> Absolutely.
>> I mean, OK, open the eyes.
>> We get in a groove,
the day-to-day groove.
And we're not even
aware of what it
is that we're doing until we
start to get uncomfortable
very often.
And that's where
the coach comes in,
where I come in and really
help an individual develop
that awareness, which then
shifts the perspective
perception, which then we
can apply the tools to,
and that's where they
can move forward.
>> And then finally--
and this is where you have that
philosophy of yours drawing it
all together, an integrated
holistic approach to life.
>> Right.
>> And not departmentalizing
everything.
>> Right.
And that's where
I talked earlier
about the integration of
the professional, personal,
and spiritual aspects of life.
>> And then I asked you,
how would you approach me
individually differently if you
were going to be my personal
business coach, or if you
were looking at me as part
of a network in a
big corporation?
How would you handle the
individual differently
than a person that's apart?
>> Well, first of all, there's
different factors to take
into consideration.
If you're a self-employed
individual like yourself,
you're going to have
different variables
that I would need to look at.
And you have actually a lot
more freedom in certain ways
if you work for yourself.
So not to say that there
couldn't be creativity
in a corporation, but if
someone's just an entrepreneur,
there is more of a space
in which to say, oh,
I think I'm going to create
this, or I'm going to try this,
or I think I'm
going to take some--
some people need time
off just to get balanced
and to kind of regroup.
If you're in a business
or a corporation,
there's a company mission.
Very often people have
a boss unless they're
the executive themselves.
So there are other guidelines--
I don't want to say that are
restrictive, but as a coach
I would need to
identify what those
are before we can move forward.
>> And even to make sure that
my personal mission statement
could really connect with
the mission statement
of the corporation.
That's where--
>> Absolutely.
>> --you might be able to
see if there are some issues.
>> Absolutely.
I have a lot of questions.
In fact, with
every client that I
work with, whether they're in
a corporation or individuals,
I have them create
a personal mission
statement and a professional
mission statement
or look at the mission statement
from the company and say,
are these completely
separate, or are there
some common threads?
How can they work together?
So that's one of the tools
that I use to work with them.
>> I like that.
>> It's a good guideline.
>> So then you can see, do
you fit in this corporation?
>> Right, absolutely.
>> Yeah.
Will this work for you?
>> That's what happens.
>> Well, I like this approach.
And I understand the integration
of the professional, personal,
and spirit, because then we're
looking at the whole person,
the holistic approach.
So I thank you.
I think you're serving as well.
>> You're welcome.
Thank you.
I'm enjoying my work, and
it's very nice to be here.
>> Excellent.
Now, if you would like to
be in touch with Patricia--
and we always love to
hear from you-- stay
tuned we'll let you know how.
And then we'll have
some parting thoughts.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
To really live in balance
in mind, body, and spirit,
we need to look at ourselves in
every compartment of our life
and not separate them.
We are the businessperson.
We are the professional.
We are the personal.
And we have all of our spiritual
aspects to deal with too.
So I think if we
can integrate those,
I love the heart-centered
approach to dealing with that.
So until next time, I'm
Georgia Shakti-Hill.
May you be well,
happy, and peaceful,
and may you be very successful.
[MUSIC PLAYING]